=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TOML::Tiny - a minimal, pure perl TOML parser and serializer

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use TOML::Tiny qw(from_toml to_toml);

  binmode STDIN,  ':encoding(UTF-8)';
  binmode STDOUT, ':encoding(UTF-8)';

  # Decoding TOML
  my $toml = do{ local $/; <STDIN> };
  my ($parsed, $error) = from_toml $toml;

  # Encoding TOML
  say to_toml({
    stuff => {
      about => ['other', 'stuff'],
    },
  });

  # Object API
  my $parser = TOML::Tiny->new;
  my $data = $parser->decode($toml);
  say $parser->encode($data);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<TOML::Tiny> implements a pure-perl parser and generator for the
L<TOML|https://github.com/toml-lang/toml> data format. It conforms to TOML
v5.0.

C<TOML::Tiny> strives to maintain an interface compatible to the L<TOML> and
L<TOML::Parser> modules, and could even be used to override C<$TOML::Parser>:

  use TOML;
  use TOML::Tiny;

  local $TOML::Parser = TOML::Tiny->new(...);
  say to_toml(...);

=head1 EXPORTS

C<TOML::Tiny> exports the following to functions for compatibility with the
C<TOML> module. See L<TOML/FUNCTIONS>.

=head2 from_toml

Parses a string of C<TOML>-formatted source and returns the resulting data
structure. Any arguments after the first are passed to L<TOML::Tiny::Parser>'s
constructor.

If there is a syntax error in the C<TOML> source, C<from_toml> will die with
an explanation which includes the line number of the error.

  my $result = eval{ from_toml($toml_string) };

Alternately, this routine may be called in list context, in which case syntax
errors will result in returning two values, C<undef> and an error message.

  my ($result, $error) = from_toml($toml_string);

=head2 to_toml

Encodes a hash ref as a C<TOML>-formatted string.

  my $toml = to_toml({foo => {'bar' => 'bat'}});

  # [foo]
  # bar="bat"

=head1 OBJECT API

=head2 new

=over

=item inflate_datetime

By default, C<TOML::Tiny> treats TOML datetimes as strings in the generated
data structure. The C<inflate_datetime> parameter allows the caller to provide
a routine to intercept those as they are generated:

  use DateTime::Format::RFC3339;

  my $parser = TOML::Tiny->new(
    inflate_datetime => sub{
      my $dt_string = shift;
      return DateTime::Format::RFC3339->parse_datetime($dt_string);
    },
  );

=item inflate_boolean

By default, boolean values in a C<TOML> document result in a C<1> or C<0>.
If L<Types::Serialiser> is installed, they will instead be C<Types::Serialiser::true>
or C<Types::Serialiser::false>.

If you wish to override this, you can provide your own routine to generate values:

  my $parser = TOML::Tiny->new(
    inflate_boolean => sub{
      my $bool = shift;
      if ($bool eq 'true') {
        return 'The Truth';
      } else {
        return 'A Lie';
      }
    },
  );

=item strict_arrays

C<TOML v5> specified homogenous arrays. This has since been removed and will no
longer be part of the standard as of C<v6> (as of the time of writing; the
author of C<TOML> has gone back and forth on the issue, so no guarantees).

By default, C<TOML::Tiny> is flexible and supports heterogenous arrays. If you
wish to require strictly typed arrays (for C<TOML>'s definition of "type",
anyway), C<strict_arrays> will produce an error when encountering arrays with
heterogenous types.

=item annotated

This is an internal flag to produce and expect C<JSON> compliant with
L<BurntSushi's TOML test suite|https://github.com/BurntSushi/toml-test>.

=back

=head2 decode

Decodes C<TOML> and returns a hash ref. Dies on parse error.

=head2 encode

Encodes a perl hash ref as a C<TOML>-formatted string. Dies when encountering
an array of mixed types if C<strict_arrays> was set.

=head2 parse

Alias for C<encode> to provide compatibility with C<TOML::Parser> when
overriding the parser by setting C<$TOML::Parser>.

=head1 DIFFERENCES FROM TOML AND TOML::Parser

L<TOML> defaults to lax parsing and provides C<strict_mode> to (slightly)
tighten things up. C<TOML::Tiny> defaults to strict parsing, with the exception
of optionally setting C<strict_arrays>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to L<ZipRecruiter|https://www.ziprecruiter.com> for encouraging their
employees to contribute back to the open source ecosystem. Without their
dedication to quality software development this distribution would not exist.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeff Ober <sysread@fastmail.fm>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2020 by Jeff Ober.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
